[Music]
both Jack and I are working with the
cameras taking stills so that we can
actively piece them together make a
time-lapse but not show the guys that
works it's going to look like it just
opens up to get the skin off it doesn't
easily peel off like like a glove does
so our skin is attached to everything
underneath by all these extra little
bits of soft tissue layers so you go
along lots of little incisions and the
whole thing will effectively come off
like a like a bodysuit
if you cut us open you get a lot of this
stuff this stuff here is the fat if you
look in cross-section there's just a
really fine little layer just under so
you've got the skin very thin layer and
then fat and straight under that's the
muscle they're ambush hunters they lay
in wait they depends how and it's all
with this look at this muscle this goes
from right up here it's within the
kneecap useful isn't lying down here and
this is just strong tough muscle here
people talk about retractile claws
they're not retractile claws so it
basically pushes them out when it needs
it which is when it's climbing or when
it's grappling hold of prey normally in
a relaxed state the tendons hold it
there and then it there's a tendon
underneath that pulls it out and it is
projected forwards it's a very neat
mechanism the last bit is taking this
whole skin off via the head and George's
going around actually cutting around the
ears the skin has to be done as
perfectly as possible so you cut around
basically is then the whole thing comes
up up here with the neck muscles and the
jaw muscles deliver very pronounced you
can obviously they're here you sort go
along as well very graceful Zoar grass
Isle very streamlined like an f1 car you
get to here and it's just like a Land
Rover it's just a massive chunky solid
neck solid muscles hit that or all that
business aimed yeah so you don't want
too much muscle on the important
locomotion bits because it would require
too much energy to move those limbs
about but obviously when you're killing
prey you've got to have a bit of muscle
there and a bit of power where else
you're not going to subdue the prey and
you're not going to be able to kill it
it's weight holding there is the
temporalis muscle and that's the one
that allows us to open and close our
mouths and then I wasn't very big we
haven't got a huge amount of bite force
but without even knowing anything about
this animal you can tell it's got huge
bite force and huge potential to chew
so George has cut all weed in a throat
that Rekia the larynx right up to the
base of the tongue under the jaw and
this think popped out this is the Tigers
tongue they look like their hair like
structures but the keratin is just a
really reinforce just how tough they are
I dissected lots of primates I've never
dissected big cats before just nice to
see where things fit it's very cool for
biologists so we're just taking out all
the abdominal organs you've got the
stomach you've got the liver you've got
the large intestine small intestine the
kidneys will be the bank somewhere it's
this big dark organ here that's hanging
over all the other organs in the the
abdomen this is the liver really
important for breaking down foods for
dispersing toxins the sorting Factory of
the of the body effectively what we've
got here is a lovely layer connective
tissue and it's really vascularized
which means there's a lots of blood
vessels in there lots of arteries lots
of veins even down to capillaries if you
hold it up to the light which is lovely
if you open it up you will see this
probably still its last meal big chunk
of meat in there somewhere
this is partly decomposed her last meal
her last supper thirdly
so we've measured the intestines and
they were eight point two nine meters
long which seems a lot is that average
retire do you think science in action so
George is cutting away the diaphragm you
can see up into the chest and you can
just see the heart that is a lovely big
heart and that's exactly what you need
if you need to pump blood through as
you're chasing down prey the heart and
the area surrounding it it's like
Clapham Junction you've got everything
coming into this one central hub is like
the busiest part of the body you've got
this lovely elastic walled artery that's
the aorta it's the biggest artery in the
body and it's elastic likes and needs to
open that's because they've got really
high pressure oxygenated blood being
pumped all around the bodies from the
whiskers down to the toes it's going
everywhere and next to it you've got the
main vein in anybody that's the the vena
cava and as you cut the heart in half
you can see the different ventricles
their different chambers
I'll let George do the chopping we
talked about the heart being just a
muscle and we sort of don't quite
understand when we say that just how
complex it really is not only is it got
this massively thick wall for the the
oxygenator side the thin wall for the
deals to me aside because these amazing
chambers the two ventricles here and
they go to atria the top
you think all this blood coming in at
high pressure and squeezing out and
squeezed had to not backflow on each
other mater is awesome he's got these
special little adapted valves here one
part there one part there and one part
there there's called a tricuspid valve
so the whole things curled around it's
like three little pockets so as the
blood all flows in it can't flow back
again it stops backflow when the whole
thing is closed about these lovely
little pieces holding all together in
the same way that parachute is kept open
with the strings and the strut the whole
thing is kept in perfect working order
[Music]